
Sylhet Engineering College reknowned as SEC is a public undergraduate (B.Sc.Engineering) institute, 
SEC was established in 2007, affiliated with SUST under the School of Applied Science.

SEC has total 180 seats available each year.
At most 180 students get accepted to their undergraduate programs.
SEC is divided into 3 departments - CSE, EEE & CE (Each with 60 seats).
There are as many as 180 seats.

To apply and check whether the circular is published or not
visit www.sec.ac.bd.  
To get the circular visit www.sec.ac.bd.


SEC is located at Tilagarh, Alurtol Road, Sylhet 3100 near beside Sylhet Agricultural University.
The location is approximately six kilometers away from the heart of Sylhet city at Tilagarh, Alurtol Road, Sylhet 3100.


Campus is consist of  16 multi-storied buildings with green surronding .
There are three large academic buildings of CSE, EEE and CE, library and computer building, administrative building, the principal's residence, teachers and staff quarters.



Two male Dormitories and 1 female Dormitory available for students.
Male dormitories known as Chata Hall - 1 and Chatra Hall -2 and Female hall known as Chatri Hall with around 600 seats.

In every semester government would give 1950 taka per students for basis in CGPA as stipend(Top 60% in per batch or department). 

After completing graduation, there is a scope to study abroad with scholarship which is counted by the rank of the SUST. 
Scolarship will be given for your individual exellencies not for your Varsity name.

Our previous students or alumnai are now in prestigious positions in Bangladesh as well as foreign countries.
Our alumnaies got the opportunity to study in world’s famous engineering university as like the University of Texas, National University of Singapore, University of Tartu, Florida Institute of Technology, University of Greenwich, Frankfurt University, TU Dresden with full funding scholarships.

There is sufficient instruments in its lab which is modern, updated and well equipped.

CSE dept has 60 seats .
CSE department provide facilities by having "Networking Lab, Communication & Microprocessor Lab, Central Computer Center Lab, Software Lab, ACM Lab, ATTS Lab, Digital Logic Design Lab.
CSE alumnaies got into world’s famous engineering university as like the University of Texas, National University of Singapore, University of Tartu, Florida Institute of Technology, University of Greenwich, Frankfurt University, TU Dresden with full funding scholarships.

CE labs facilities with Transportation Lab, Drawing Lab, Hydraulics Lab, Environment Lab, Geo-Technical Lab, Machine Shop Lab, Welding Shop Lab, Surveying Shop Lab, Foundry Shop Lab, Wood Shop Lab, Language Lab, AutoCAD Lab.
CE dept has 60 seats.

EEE dept has 60 seats.
EEE department facilities Electronics Lab, Electrical Circuit Lab, Electrical Machine Lab, Power System & High voltage Lab, Digital Signal Lab, Structural Machine Lab, Robotics Lab, ATTS Lab. 

	
To provide rich library facilities to all the students have access to the Central Library.
The Central library is situated besides academic building having huge amount of books related to course materials.	

Yes,there have a very good facility of free Wi-fi or broadband.
You can get High Speed internet service for free in here.
Each dept has own hi speed wifi and broadband connection.
Labs has Hi speed internet connection.

Here,in our campus, Noticeable number of extra curricular activities performed by more than 15+ cultural organizations.
The cultural and social clubs are Swaroborno cultural organization, Rangbazz, Pentatone(Campus Band), Debate Society, SECPA_Photography,SEC_Cyclist,Blood Bank,Scouting etc.
Technical organizations are CSE Society, SEC_Cyclist, Robotics Club, Gamers Community, Android Developers, Mathematics Society.

Academic courses offered are based on credit system.
There could be around total of 160-164 credits which means per semester there will be 19-22 credits.

The grading system for students are based on standard grading system.

As of 2018 you have to pay application fee 800 taka through DBBL mobile banking. Check official website for further information.

Total cost of tution fees and semester fees or total amount of money will be around 80000 taka in 4 years. 
Generally every semester there there will be need 10000 taka.


As of previous year circular, 2nd time is allowed here.

To check whether the circular is published or not and to get the circular visit www.sec.ac.bd.
To apply visit www.sec.ac.bd.

Qualification to apply is, according to 2018 prospectus, at least total minimum GPA/grade 7.00 in HSC/equivalent and SSC/equivalent,  at least minimum GPA/grade 3.00 in particularly Physics, Chemistry, Biology and English.
For British Curriculum/English Medioum, at GCE 'O' level, have to pass 5 subjects with at least B  in 3 of them and at GCE 'A' level, have to pass 3 subjects with at least B  in 2 of them.

Admission Test Date will be decalared along with the circular(Approximately in November,2019) 
To check the admission test date visit www.sec.ac.bd.



Students who completed diploma are not eligible.

As of 2018 you have to pay application fee 800 taka through DBBL mobile banking. Check official website for further information.

There is total 3-5 quota available for TQ(Tribal Quota) and FFQ(Freedom Fighter Quota), fill up quota details(If any) while applying.



Written exam will be taken,marks distributed as Physics(30 marks),Mathematics(30 marks)
Chemistry(20 marks) and English(20 marks).
Exam time is 1 hour and 30 minitues , exam type : written.
Question will be in Bangla, 
if anyone wants to question in English they have to select 'English' while applying.


GPA number will be calculated as multiply GPA of SSC/equivalent with 2and multiply GPA of HSC/equivalent with 4.

In final merit list, 70% 
number will come from total marks admission test and rest 30% will come from your GPA.
You have to get minimum 40% marks of final marks(Exam+GPA) to pass otherwise you won't be enlisted in merit list.

There is NO negative marking, so chill and answer. 
There is no clear declaration about partial marking.


To contact authorities for further enquiries about admission email at: 'admission@sec.ac.bd.'
 

Phone: 01732 914039, 01634 374426 .


To reach SEC campus follow these paths/ways at minimum cost , kodomtoli ->amborkhana/tilagor point -> alurtol road.

There is no session jam/jot in here.

Facebook pages and groups available for help:
- https://www.facebook.com/sec.admission.aid/ (Admission_Aid )
- https://www.facebook.com/groups/sec.admission/ (Admission_Aid_Group) 


 